You mentioned your, this isn't really a question, it's on, the tape is rolling, but you mentioned
your dad gave you all those ace doubles when you were a kid.
I'm a collector, I just threw blood, sweat and tears and finished my ace double collection.
Do you still have it?
Do you still collect books and that sort of thing?
No, the practiccounties of career or such, I don't collect unfortunately or fortunately
much of anything now because we're in the disposable society and unfortunately I've
become a victim to that.
But I'm just racing around so much, the trip to England in October, I live a good 45
minutes to an hour drive from where I do most of my interviews in Hollywood and Invirons
and so I'm racing around too much to collect and then I'm trying to get out every so often
and see movies, maybe review a movie now and then to collect means to take up space
and I have so much space taken up with interviews that I've done on tape with biographies that
I have to read that they're just to put it colloquially now, there ain't enough room.
Yeah, I think I understand, I haven't had to make the switch yet to throwing away my
collection, I hope I don't have to.
And I'm not, I tend to, oh, this is part of the interview, fine.
Yeah, I know for sure.
Is it on tape?
This is on tape, we can shut it off if you want.
No, no, this is fine, use whatever you want.
In some ways I guess I tend to be materialistic but I look at maybe collecting unless one
does it for investment reasons as a cumulative materialism whereby materialism, oh, how do
we put it, you buy a television, you keep it for a year, maybe you get tired of it,
you want a bigger television, you dispose of the previous television.
But when you're collecting things you keep what you have before and add to it and I'm
just not oriented that way.
I'm interested in cars, I've had, could have had 40 cars in 14 years but I don't have all
40 cars yet with me.
Maybe your wisdom will rub off on me, yes I do have all these books.
You used the word wisdom, I think there's a certain comfort in collecting.
If I were a smoker, which I am not, I would, let's say I smoked pipes, I would probably
find a great deal of satisfaction in using pipes that I'd gotten maybe 10 years before
and maybe I was in Paris and I got this pipe in a special little store just off of Champs-les-Été
and that would bring back memories.
That kind of collecting might be nice but I'm living new things all the time and I don't
really have time necessarily to rehash a lot of memories, although they can be very nice.
I have some friends for example who, well and this is not again a plug for the magazine,
but if I were a collector, let me rephrase that, to be a collector I'd have to have the
room for it and some friends of mine have taken over it where Valentino's oldest state,
Falkenslayer, it has 10 bedrooms, 12 bathrooms, it's on 4 and a half acres of ground right
in the middle of Beverly Hills, I couldn't afford the taxes on the thing but it's such
a beautiful house, they've refurbished it, they collect and they also sell antiques.
That house has a million dollars worth of antiques in it and I could see what that would
be very pleasant because an antique is something that can be shown that adds beauty to a room
and is also a good investment and I think I could probably, if I had the money, which
I don't, tip over in that direction but not much else.
Okay, back to the real world now I guess.
This may be a difficult question and one way to answer because you are more or less out
of science fiction but I will ask it first of all about the printed word science fiction
then I'll ask it about the movies but where do you see science fiction going?
You were involved in it for so many years, you went through the new wave and did a lot
of editing on the tail end of that, where is it going now in your opinion?
Well I think by virtue of Spielberg and Lucas in their areas of science fiction their taste
being assimilated by people who see their movies and then those tastes are guided, guide what
they buy, I think it's definitely going in the more traditional, the more space adventure
and in the case of AT the more poignant science fiction.
I think for example, Edgar Pangborn and what a wonderful writer he was did a classic science
fiction book called Mirror for Observers and that has some of the most poetic, beautiful,
moving, poignant science fiction writing that I've ever read in science fiction and some of the
best writing I've ever read in any genre or even out of the genres and I would like to think that
science fiction is definitely moving in that direction and let's face it, Star Wars, Empire
Strikes Back, ET and Close Encounters obviously not in that order of release have made pretty close
to worldwide now, golly, nudging a billion dollars at movie theaters and the spin-off,
the paperback books have earned also an incredible amount of money now. Why are people going in that
direction? They're going in that direction because they're not paying their money to see a movie that
they hope to dislike, they're paying their money to see a movie that they hope to like and by the way
the only reason those movies are succeeding is not because 200 million people have seen the movies,
it's because maybe 50 million people have seen the movies and half of those people are seeing
those movies two and three and four and sometimes seven, eight and ten times. The movie business I hit,
a real out-of-the-ball park home run is based upon people going back to the theater and seeing the
film again and again. Otherwise if you'd had only first time, only time viewers, ET would not have
grossed according to the latest figures over 200 million dollars in this country alone.
I keep using the word phase I realize. It's etched in my brain. In your opinion,
is the spate of the science fiction movies the ones that you've mentioned, is that a phase in five
years, ten years from now? Are we going to be going to some other genre movies that are going to be the
current crazer? Do you think this is something that may stay with us for a while?
When was Star Wars first released?
That was 77.
They asked the same question in the midst of that and it's been five years later. How much longer
do we ask the same question? Next year we have a 1983, we have a revenge in the Jedi out. The second
sequel to Star Wars, the third one in that series. Will that continue the cycle? Perhaps I think you
have a phase when you have movies such as X-Caliber and Conan the Conqueror and as of the day to this
interview, the forthcoming Beastmaster, you have a phase there that seems to give the impression
that it's going to be nothing more than a phase, that a year or two it'll die out. X-Caliber made a
lot of money. Conan made a lot of money initially but after the first couple of weeks or so and word of
mouth got around about really what an atrocious picture it was, the drop-off in business from one
week to the next was like 42, even 50 percent, maybe as low as 30 percent. So as soon as word of
mouth got around the pictures died. Now I see that genre of sword and sorcery and so on being a phase.
But what we're dealing with here is a brand of science fiction, a process science fiction that has
actually been around 60 years for Pete's sake. Look again at Gernsback, look again at John W.
Campbell. So if it's a phase I think it's going to be a pretty long-lived one. Yeah, it's a trend more
than a phase. As far as I was concerned Star Wars with the exception of the the princess, now she
wasn't a wallflower but otherwise it could have come straight out of the 20s or 30s. Yeah, oh totally,
totally. So I think we're also in the midst I'm told of something of a nostalgia boom so maybe that
fits in as well. I don't know. One thing that brought to mind when you were talking I find it
ironic that in the written word fantasy is is outselling science fiction there are more fantasy
titles than there are new science fiction titles. It's not in the movie field. Exactly, it's the
opposite and the fantasy doesn't quite cut it for some reason. We know why I think in a novel we
create the world in our minds through the the implements as it were the author's words. He helps
as he gets started in that world but our minds fill in the gaps and in the movies it is such a
literal view our minds can't fill in any of the gaps and the visions that have thus far been up on
the screen have been imperfect and we don't have anything left to our imagination anymore.
Does that make sense? Yeah, I like that. If I analyze it I think that's right. Conan just didn't
quite cut it in the from the fantastic part the spirits the thing I really walked out in the
film because what they did was they some of my prejudices are showing. It was so sexually
explicit that scene by the fireplace where the woman turns into a witch and all or maybe she's a
witch and I forget was she turned into a snake or a bird or whatever it was I tried to forget as
I mean there they the movies today feel that unless they have a sexually explicit scene and you
know I can prove this movie after movie after movie the world according to Garp for example which
was a real disaster and some others and yet there's I remember so many people Fred Polan
others telling me that to just stick in a sex scene in a science fiction film or or book just
seems supposedly out of place because for so many years the genre didn't have any of that.
Right. Okay I'm about at the end of my my questions that I've asked I was gonna come
into you really like Edgar Pangborn and I don't I do too and I spider Robinson's editorializing
few years ago turned me on to him and I really like him but very few people have ever heard of
that. That's interesting yes they've heard of Clark they've heard of Asimov they've heard of Bradbury
and so on but they haven't heard of Edgar Pangborn but I really I mean mirror for observers
especially that beautiful last paragraph it was prose poetry for Pete Sack so much as science
fiction is either quirky or nuts and bolts that I just I respond my own personal taste again or
toward poetry and writing I try to have my own writing as poetic as possible whenever I can it's
interesting I've interviewed movie stars and others and I've been interviewing them for so many
years and I interviewed one of the kids on fame Lee Carriere the white kid who has the kind of the
afro haircut nice kid so I interviewed him and somebody else had interviewed him and said oh
he's so dull I mean ah how can you ever get an interview out of him so I went and interviewed him
and I found them really terrific because he's quote if you will an intellectual sort of person
and I probed that I didn't go the fan magazine route of well you know who's your girlfriend what's
your favorite color what did you have for breakfast all that nonsense which you could find in any
good biography anyway so why waste the person's time and your time so what I did was I probed the
mind and the heart and the soul of the kid if I may refer to him as a kid he's about 22 years old
compared to 40 years old he's a kid that's we said with respect anyway and I did an article based
upon the interview sometimes I do Q&A which is kind of a routine way of doing it but if the interview
is good enough it works but in this case the interview worked but I also wanted to add some
my own insight into it and I ended up with a final paragraph let me see if I can find it hold on a
second
representative found it I hope this doesn't come off as corny I mean I may check it out and not read
all right we don't we won't have to use it on anything
oh my goodness
oh I'd like to see her
she is so nice I oh here it is okay by the way I also interviewed Rod Steiger and he's a prince too
okay well corny or not here we go final paragraph my editorial comments not a quote
when he was much younger Lee reached out plenty of times tentatively investigating the cardores of
his mind and wanting to communicate his findings to his peers only to be rebuffed repeatedly
that is no longer the case he has emerged from a kind of denny twisted battered and isolated cocoon
in which he once had been entrapped the comparison is valid you know a caterpillar can only crawl
susceptible to being stepped on by careless speed or sprayed with poisons but a butterfly is free
it can soar it can reach up one could fantasize to the sky and beyond even to the gates of heaven
well you know we're dealing with oh essentially quick journalism we're dealing with a short article
we're not dealing with great art but what I try to do with my articles and the people I interview in
that whole scene is not going there and hit on well I think I can summarize it this way
Shirley Jones told me at a two-hour interview with her that was more like a conversation
conversation keyword with a friend second keyword than an interrogation by a journalist
and and I don't think just because you're doing an article on a film star that it should be
kind of a seedy opportunistic article there should be an attempt whether it succeeds or
fails is almost unimportant there should be an attempt to do something hopefully a little bit
better hopefully a little bit more poignant but at least not predictable and not salacious in the
sense of say the national inquirer all right yeah I imagine it's pretty hard to do oh it is and you
don't want to force it it has to be natural so there's some ways that I handle articles for
example and strictly the q&a format I did an interview of Cliff Robertson and of course some years
ago four or five years ago he was involved in the business with David Bigelman the movie tycoon
and the forgery thing and so forth I did that strictly as q&a because there what people were
interested in reading about is what Cliff went through not what I might be able to interpolate
into it so strictly q&a are the stars uh all I've ever interviewed is science fiction writers
generally they're they're cerebral um science fiction right yes generally they are pretty well
spoken although not all of them they may not have great voices or anything but they can express their
ideas well are the stars um as bright a lot or as they are some of them uh you know kind of dumb I
get the impression that there are some of them well I just don't understand the artistic talent
really that sort of thing so I probably have a bad opinion of them but they don't seem too bright a
lot well all right what what is the what are we actually saying there is something endemic
to acting that draws stupid people or that I'm very prejudiced I think that's probably what it is
that that is my question is that what we are saying if we are not saying that
then the answer would be that there are no more stupid people or or empty or superficial people
in this business than there are in any other what happens is let's put it this way and I think
that I may suspiciously come close to patting myself in the back for a moment
is that the average journalist and there are exceptions golly a number of exceptions but
the average journalist will consider an interview with a star strictly as a job to be done in the
course of business as in doing a newspaper and and they know know insult or sarcasm intended
that they will not have an opinion of a star prior to the interview and they'll let that
guide them during the interview any more interesting than the one you have no they will think as you
do as you surmise that a star may be dumber than the rest of us so they ask dumb questions
and the star will respond maybe dumbly what I try to do is not ask questions even at all
although I ask questions because if you simply ask questions you are conducting an interview
what I am doing with when I interview a star is to do a as to engage in a conversation let me try
this on you that try my little pet theory this occurred to me generally the people I associate
with the people I interview are I guess are left hemisphere people there that sort of thing whereas
that I would the artistic talent is generally associated with the right hemisphere and more
with creativity and that sort of thing maybe that's where my problem is science fiction writers are
creative artistic out of the technical practical side of their head and movie stars are probably
more creative out of the artistic side of their head I'm not a psychologist that's my layman's
guess well let me let me give you I was just looking through something here while you were
not great art but here's something that that red steiger said get it going back to what I said
before he continued interrupting his own silence my thoughts quote pain has been my teacher but it
is also a teacher that must be understood life is not a gift life is not a joy it is a battle when
it lacks compassion it is an adventurous conflict when it has compassion when you realize that there
has to be a certain amount of pain in the life you're leading and you accept this and when you
accept it with intelligence and understand that every other human being has the same or similar
burdens then the poetic quality that makes life soar can come in the being steiger stood stretching
his legs he looked outside at the ways that were breaking the shore a few hundred feet from his
malibu house then he turned and sat down again his eyes and 10 I mean I say to myself about myself
good lord look at this curious piece called man man who knows that it's going to be a pain in the
ass day but somehow we'll get through it and somehow we'll survive I'm amazed how many of us insist
upon survival on stumbling forward I mean just insist upon this and then magically wonderously
our fears enable us to discover beauty in our existence yes our fears fuel beauty and that can
be a desire to survive at more than just an animalistic level to survive with courage with a measure
of purpose that is beauty indeed now okay but not cheap interview material that's not my favorite
color is red I had two eggs for breakfast or well I'm sleeping with so-and-so or whatever that is not
it's not great art it can't be considered great writing or maybe even great interviewing
but I think it's a cut above the national inquire well it obviously comes from his heart yes and um
yeah I like that enough as the engineer said there are some exceptions yes and this I told him uh you
speak extemporaneously as I hope to write after three drafts
yeah I can believe it after what we just heard yep and then there are other people there are the
giddy superficial quote starlet types but I got so mad well only insane people get mad
uh I got so angry at a writer who wanted to write for my magazine and I won't name him for obvious
reasons uh one of a friend of mine and I used a friend the word friend in this case in quotes
he's more than the acquaintance but not an intimate friend but I used a friend in quotes okay a friend
of mine is Scott Bayo who was on the happy day series for some years and then is now spun off into
a separate series which he stars in called Junie Los Marchi he's gotten a lot of play as a teen
idol type but I know him and I know his father Mario and the guy's a good kid he's uh he's got a
lot of a lot of talent as an actor maybe a little less talent as a singer but that's developing too
and a good individual an interesting person to interview and I just plain like him there's one
writer who had been recommended to me I called him interested in having him write for me because he
said that he was going to interview Scott Bayo and I've interviewed Scott enough that sometimes
you want to hold off for a bit and get a new perspective and maybe have somebody else do it
so I said well yeah fine I know him if you have any trouble getting in touch with him let me know
but yeah why don't you consider writing a story or doing an interview and writing a story on Scott
and uh he said yeah he said uh this this guy who is a teen idol who um is uh
capitalizing on his teen idol success to cut a record or two uh he's really trying to rip off
his fans and I said hold it wait a minute how do you know he says well that's what I think I said
all right what do you base that upon have you ever interviewed him before and he said no
I said how much have you studied what's inside his mind he said I I really haven't done that I
read an article or two I said was that subject ever discussed he said no I said so you mean to tell me
you're going into an interview with somebody with that kind of mindset at the beginning and and that's
going to guide every one of your questions I said talk about predetering your case or his case or
whatever I said I think that's canvas you will not write for us he said well do you want to publish
have them then and I said all right it is just as dishonest it's it's well let me rephrase it
it is dishonest to go into an interview with that perspective in mind based upon nothing but a kind of
superficial impression that any interview can be twisted and shaped according to virtually any
point of view if you want to do it that way it's it's not hard but are you interested in doing an
interview according to a preconception of yours or you're interested in finding the truth because
if you go into it with that hard-nosed and attitude you'll disregard the truth and and have that angle
become a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy so that writer will never write for me
very interesting let me uh by the way is it possible if I may I'd love to get if it's not too
bloody expensive for you a copy of the whole interview and also a copy of the edited down one
is that possible not for approval I hasten that no no that's very possible it takes us
what three minutes to make a copy oh good okay um let me get your drink I think you gave it to me
in Dallas but I better get it just fine 29438 promontory that's PROMONT ORY place uh it's a
kora h-e-o-u-r-a california 91301 91301 okay fantastic oh yeah we'll get you a copy uh
a bow version yeah no problem tell you what the we'll get you the original uh real quick
the edited version good while let me ask you you'd mentioned a little bit when I talked to you in
Dallas that you know some people and that sort of thing we have some people in our radio show
that are really interested in the movies in that aspect and we okay the science fiction movies
talk you know people who who produce them that sort of thing and you gave us the name of glenn
camble with disney studios before yeah would it be possible for us to talk to you every once in a
while and just uh see if you know somebody that's involved with this movie or that movie oh absolutely
call me anytime and if I don't know I can suggest somebody who doesn't know and if I don't even know
that I'll tell you great okay that's that's what we need we sure appreciate getting the chance to
talk to you did make any sense this interview is this yes I'm so used to doing my own that uh
I'm not sure how this turns out from your point oh I think it turned out great of course from the
for the radio show we will we will concentrate more on the laser books and in the editing that
sort of thing but uh it's just interesting to get into uh somebody else's mindset and uh
it's it's very good for me especially to talk to another interviewer one that's got a lot more
experience and how do I come off frankly if you were putting on the whole thing which you're not
we know that because there's not a good time but if you were broadcasting the whole thing edited to
eliminate the hems and the hams and so on how how how would I come off you come off as positive
confident very on excruciatingly honest um very bright and uh humorous is this part on tape too
this is this is on tape that part I like that okay tell you next next book right parents who have had
some doubts about that part of that I talked to your dad one night I had a good conversation
with him the terrific people they live with you well yes they do I know I was going to rephrase
that somewhat self-defensively but you put it properly okay well great that's somebody to watch
the house when you're in england and all those oh no no uh actually uh oh you might be interested
now that I'm have you seen the preview to Beastmaster yes on the tube not in a movie but on the tube
well the one I saw which was actually the preview was better than the whole movie world according to
garb which is one of the world's worst uh the preview has got to be one of the most energetic
interesting exciting enticing previews that I've ever seen in 30 years of movie going
I mean the picture may be a total disaster but that preview is is classical in that it achieves
the the result of giving a non-stop action filled impression to the to the viewer the engineer said
do you remember the uh preview for the sword and sorcerer the sword and the sword and the sorcerer
the second one who has apparently I didn't see it but apparently the preview was wonderful the
movie was less than wonderful do you agree David it was far less than wonderful and on the other hand
they'll they'll be previews of pictures and aren't so good and the picture turns out to be pretty good
yeah as a matter of fact let's see what did I see no that was my wife an officer and a gentleman
I didn't think it looked good in the previews and she said it wasn't any good as a movie so what can I
tell you one picture that looked wonderful in the previews and always in the
pro-scizely dull film uh French and the Tenderness Woman
I never it never made it to the sticks out here that's right I read the book I love the book but
didn't ever get to see the movie hey we don't want to continue to run up here Bill I can talk for
another hour if you want I think that would be pointless from your point of view so I look forward
to getting this I'm rather curious to see how illogical or whatever I turn out to be
well thanks for being our guinea pig then and we've really enjoyed talking to you
this fall sometime yeah these are our fall programs and we'll uh
and if you want to call me back and add to it or if there are other no I would say other celebrities
I'm not a celebrity if there are celebrities that you would like me to help you get in touch with
you know within the right perspective and all just just call there's no problem great we sure
appreciate it thanks Bill thank you Roger take care now bye bye